Lab 5 Questions and Answers
Group members: Hae In Lee, Lemei Zhang

Question 1:
The superblock describes how the disk is formatted. It keeps a record of the size of the 
file system image, the number of data blocks for the file system, and the starting block 
number for some sections in the disk: the bitmap region, the inode region, the swap region 
(lab 4), and the log region (lab 5).


Qustion 2:
The bitmap is an array of ones and zeros that is used to keep track of whether a specific 
disk block is used or free, where each index corresponds to a block in the file system. If 
the bit for a specific index is 1, then the block it corresponds to is used, otherwise it 
is free.


Question 3:
dirlookup looks for a directory entry in a directory, and return the inode for the directory 
and its byte offset with respect to the start of the directory. It accepts an inode that 
represents a directory, a char array that represents the name of the entry that we want to 
look for, and a uint pointer poff for returning the byte offset of the directory entry with 
respect to the start of the directory it is in. First, it will check whether the given inode 
is a directory, if so, it will go through the directory entries for that inode (struct dirent), 
and check whether one of them contains the same name as the passing file name. If so, we set 
poff equal to the current byte offset from the start of the directory, and get and return 
the inode of the file via iget, otherwise, 0 is returned.


Question 4:
To implement file delete in our project, we would add a valid bit to the dirent struct in 
addition to a valid bit to the dinode struct. Upon delete we would (1) zero out the blocks 
pointed to by the extents, (2) zero out the corresponding bits in the bitmap to indicate that 
the blocks are available, (3) zero out the dinode struct, modifying the valid bit of the dinode 
struct, and (4) zero out the dirent struct, modifying the valid bit of the dirent struct. To 
ensure deletion is crash-safe we would also implement a delete log such that when delete is 
called, we would first write the inum we wish to the delete to the log. The inum can then be 
used to find the dinode and the dirent we wish to delete. One last thing we would have to do, 
is also go through the icache and make sure copies of the inode no longer exist. After this, 
we can then reset the delete log’s commit block, making it ready for another crash-safe delete.


Question 5:
Hae: ~50 hours
Lemei: ~50 hours

